[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And
now, world renowned
spirit medium, James Van Praagh.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Hi everyone.
Hi, how are you?
How are you?
Thanks for being here.
Thank you very much, thank you.
And thank you, also,
for watching today
on another episode
of Spirit Talk,
where I take you one
step closer to Heaven.
So how many people
here have thought
about, I've loved somebody and
they've never loved me back?
Most of us.
Most of us had that.
And I just want to
talk to you a today
a little bit about
love and fear.
Yes?
I believe that we
are all spirit.
We are a source energy.
And I believe that we can call
it God, we can call it spirit,
we can call it soul.
Whatever you want
to call it is fine,
whatever you want to
label it, that's fine.
We grew up with a lot of
traditions, religions,
and so forth, where there
were different names
and that's fine.
But really what it
all means is source.
It's source energy.
And we are all source
energy, which is pure love.
God is love, love this God.
And we are made of love.
And we are made of that
energy which is part of us.
And the more we
step away from love,
the more we step away from
our nature, we work in fear.
So how many people in
here love to be loved?
Yeah, it feels good, doesn't it?
It feels really, really good.
And the reason why
we love to feel love
is because we're in
alignment with source.
We're in alignment with our
true nature of who we are.
Love is so incredible
because the more
we live with alignment of love
and we come to source energy,
we can expand every
aspect of our lives.
And how many people
here have thought about,
gosh, I would love to have
this condition in my house.
I would like to have a new
car, a new job, a relationship,
things that work for me.
Why do you think they
don't work for you?
Why do you think you don't
have those things in your life?
>>AUDIENCE: Fear.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fear, thank you.
So fear, what you're
doing with fear
is you're actually
limiting your love source.
You're limiting your power.
You're pinching away.
So you really are limiting
and pulling in with fear.
Fear really does, if
you will, constrict.
Because love is all about
expansion, expansion,
expansion, expansion.
And the moment
you start bringing
fear, which is an unnatural
energy, to who you
are as a spirit being, then
you're really limiting source.
And it's really,
really interesting.
When you bring people
into your life who
live for a space of
fear, you're also
allowing that energy to
come to and affect you,
and limiting your source.
And then it becomes, oh,
I'm really upset about them.
How could they have
done this to me?
Oh, they're afraid,
and I don't understand
why they would do this.
And how could they be some mean?
And all these wonderful,
fearful things.
And also us.
I'm afraid of not having money.
Yes, I'm afraid of not
having a relationship.
I'm afraid-- and if
you put that out there
that you're afraid
of that, you're
putting fear out
there, guess what.
That's what you'll have.
Because as source energy, as
pure loving spiritual beings,
God being God, God says yes--
constantly creating and giving
and source always will provide.
The source provides more and
expands more, and expands more.
But if in your consciousness,
if in your mind--
because you create
with your thoughts,
you're creating all the time--
if you put that out there,
that I don't have any money.
I'm fearful about
not having money.
I can't afford this.
I'm never going to have
the right relationship.
Oh, they don't understand me.
Oh, I can't do this,
I can't do that.
Any time that negativity
into the equation
you're stepping away from love.
You're stepping away
from your source.
from the vortex of love,
the source of who you are.
Yes?
And the more you give
power to the fear,
to the negative
energy, that's what
you will manifest in your life.
Because the law is perfect.
The law, the universal law,
is perfect, of manifestation.
You'll have exactly
what you want to create.
And I think fear,
in some ways, can
be used in a positive way where
it's kind of like a guidance
to see how far away
from love you are, yeah,
how far away from love you are.
And how many people have
fearful people in their lives?
Right, all of us.
And why do you think
you choose to have
those people in your life?
>>AUDIENCE: Because we're
afraid to let go of them.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because we're
afraid to not be alone perhaps?
OK, so that's coming from a
place of fear, not being alone.
So you are setting up that
condition to live that out.
So if you're going to step
into that fear, make that real,
you're getting
further and further
and further away from source,
you're limiting source.
And you will have
that condition.
So you will complete
that cycle and constantly
have that cycle, where you
will have people in your life,
because you're afraid not
to have anybody, guess what.
You're not going
to have anybody.
And if you do get
somebody into your space,
into your atmosphere, they won't
be coming from a space of love.
They will also be coming
from a space of fear,
because you have asked for that.
You have asked for that by what
you sent out to the universe.
The universe will attract
that with your thoughts,
with your energy,
with your expansion.
God says yes.
We are all god.
Our egos, our
human part says no.
Fear says no.
Fear can be a great, great
guidance, like I said,
it can be a great,
great guidance.
And fearful, I
shouldn't do that.
I shouldn't do this.
It kind of validates love,
in a way, it validates love.
What else are you afraid of?
Give me some more examples.
Just scream it out.
>>AUDIENCE: Death.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Death,
that's a good one.
So the fear of death, that's
very, very interesting.
Which I find that, when
you're in complete alignment
with self, you
realize that there
is no such thing as death, that
death is really an illusion.
Yes?
But we have believed over years
that there's such a fear about
it because it's the unknown
and we cannot control it.
And it's so interesting
because the world's
going to go on whether
we live or not.
Everything's going to go on
whether we control things,
whether there's
certain conditions.
Everybody is going to die.
And we die every day.
We die every day.
So we die every day, cells
die off, new cells regenerate.
We do that every day.
And there really should
be no fear in death
because there is no
such thing as death.
So when you have a fear of
death, you're limiting you.
You're limiting yourself.
Again, we're putting
ourselves in a box.
And it's kind of a
control type of thing.
And I always like to tell
people, you have no control.
Right?
You have no control.
But what you do
have is you do have
control of how you respond
to other people's situations,
how people choose to
really work with you.
For instance, you
are in control of how
you're going to receive
information from somebody else,
whether you're going to
accept that information
into your atmosphere
of love, or not.
You don't have to.
So I often say you
can't control others.
But you certainly can control
what you think about them,
or how you're going deal
with a situation from them.
Yes?
And if you're putting
out an energy of I
don't like that person.
There's some fear
based information,
again you're creating fear.
And if you put that out
into the atmosphere,
where I'm afraid here.
I'm afraid of that, the
universe will give it to you.
So what are you afraid of?
What's your biggest fear?
>>AUDIENCE:
Suffering at the end.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
And why do you think
you're going to suffer?
>>AUDIENCE: I've seen
people suffer at the end.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You've
seen people suffer.
OK, why have they suffered?
>>AUDIENCE: Pain.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Pain.
>>AUDIENCE: Cancer.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Guess what,
God, in his wondrous way,
has given every one of us, or
scientists, a bit of droplets.
I call it the droplets of
God, inspired scientists
to invent certain chemicals,
certain medications, that
guess what, we don't
need to be in pain.
We don't need to be in pain.
We might want to because
we feel, oh, we've
got to be in pain.
We've got to suffer
before we die
because that's what
death is about.
Not at all, that is an illusion.
We do not need to suffer.
There's a lovely
thing called morphine.
[LAUGHING]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Which guess what,
if I'm going through any pain,
morphine, thank you.
Because God has
created that for us,
and really given that invention
to scientists to manifest that,
so we don't need to be in pain.
We do not need it.
That is not natural
to our source.
It's not natural to who we
are as spiritual beings,
as soul beings.
We really don't need it.
The actual transition of
leaving the body, when
the spirit leaves, it's a
very natural experience.
It's a very lovely experience.
It's a very happy experience.
It's jubilant,
everyone's very joyful
when they pass out
of the physical.
I've never once, in my 30
years of doing this work,
have I ever had a
spirit come back
and say, gosh I really
miss that disease.
I really miss being
ill and being sick.
I just want to come
back in that body.
Not once, not once.
And that's because, of
course, this our school room.
This is not our home.
This is the illusionary world.
We, as humans, work things out.
We work out our sense
of acceptance of self,
living in alignment with love.
Yes?
Understanding love for loving
of self, loving of others,
and really creating
the conditions
in our life from love.
You can have anything
in your life you want.
If you work in alignment, and
you work with the atmosphere
correctly, if you
come from your source
energy of pure love,
which is who you are,
you can have anything you want.
But it's unfortunate that
we sometimes live in fear.
And fear limits love.
So you push things back.
You're pinching that energy.
You're pinching,
you're limiting love.
So that's why we don't have
everything we always want,
yeah.
So, so many of us, we
want to be in love.
And sometimes we feel like,
I don't know what it is.
You can talk about love,
James, what is love?
What is love?
So any time you feel
good about something,
any time you love
something, whether you
love a beautiful garden, whether
you love a beautiful meal,
whether you love a
person, whether you
love a various
situation, a sunset,
does that make you feel good?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's love.
That is love.
Makes sense, huh?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
think about that.
Think about that, the
things that make you happy,
the things that are good.
Because that is what love is.
So love isn't away from us.
Love is a part of
our everyday lives.
But we've just got
to realize that love
is a part of our everyday lives.
It's right there.
It's what we feel good about.
And what is fear?
How can we tell fear?
Things that we don't love.
Things that we're
not happy about.
People's negative emotions,
people that we're around
that are really kind of
downers, and like depressed,
and it's like, oh, my goodness.
If they talk one more time
about not having enough money,
or this is happening.
You know those people
in your lives, right?
Those people they just complain
and they're a lot of victims,
they have a victim
consciousness.
Oh, I'm so worried about that.
Oh this--
It becomes painful for the
person with them, listening
to that, and very boring.
Very boring.
After a while, you don't want
to be around negative energy.
You don't want to be
around negative people
because they bring you down.
And that's because that's
not their natural energy.
So if you want your life,
if you're in your life,
and you want your
life to change,
seriously, you want to bring
things that make you happy,
that come close to your
alignment of source,
of love, of your soul's
source, which is love.
I often say to people,
maybe have some things
around your house that make you
cheerful, a tropical fish tank,
a beautiful painting.
Cook some beautiful meals.
Whatever makes you
happy, that is love.
And whatever brings you fear,
whatever brings you fear,
whatever you don't feel happy
about that is fear based,
say bye-bye.
Don't need it.
If you want to continue with
it, you have that choice, too.
But I would think that
life on this planet
is very, very short.
And I would like
to use this time
that we have here with the
most optimum way possible.
In the most optimum
way possible.
Yeah?
OK.
This lady, you have
a question over here.
Would you mind standing, please?
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Shannon.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi, Shannon.
>>AUDIENCE: Hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You look
very pretty today.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very beautiful.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What's
your question, my love?
>>AUDIENCE: My question is
the fear of pain, again.
Do medications interfere--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well let
me just go back, and let
me just work with you on this.
So when you say
you're afraid of pain,
why do you think you have pain?
>>AUDIENCE: Just from physical,
not so much pain, hurting pain.
But like, illness.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Why do you think
there's illness?
>>AUDIENCE: Why do I
think there's illness?
I don't know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let's
just think about it.
Why is there illness?
Why do we bring illness
into our atmosphere?
>>AUDIENCE: Fear, of course.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fear.
So it's not being in proper
alignment, and acceptance
that we are source
and we are love.
And when we bring fear, we
bring elements or particles
into our awareness which are not
within our natural vibration,
it'll throw us off balance.
It'll stop the
flow from flowing.
The energy flows up
and down the spine.
And remember that
our thoughts will
create the atmosphere we
have, the atmosphere that's
manifested.
So if we bring in these
limitations of source,
it's going to end
up in dis-ease,
the flowing's going to stop.
And what happens with that?
We become stagnant and
we open ourselves up,
and all of our thoughts of
negativity, of fear, become
realized.
And that manifests in illness.
Illness of the mind
first, because everything
starts with a thought.
Everything first begins
manifesting with a thought.
And the last place
a thought ends up
is in the physical vibration.
So that's why we
have to be very, very
careful of our thoughts.
Think of your mind as a garden.
And I love them, I'm
talking about garden,
you're all loving
it, I can tell.
You're smiling over there.
But think of your
mind as a garden.
Do you want a beautiful garden?
Cultivate a lovely landscape of
flowers that you're proud of.
Or do you want
one full of weeds,
and that nothing can grow?
It's up to each one of us
to be in that alignment.
And that is our responsibility.
And it's not that hard.
It's not that hard to do this.
What I just said before was what
makes you happy is love-based.
What does not make you
happy is fear-based.
And you have to
live every day being
in that alignment of
love and source, or not.
>>AUDIENCE: In the
physical world,
does any disease that
requires medication,
does medication interfere
with your spirit?
>>VAN PRAAGH: The spirit
is pure and whole.
It does not interfere.
It has nothing to do with
the spirit, actually.
One is a physical vibration.
One is etheric, of another whole
different world, if you will.
I would say there are
certain medicines that
can affect the mind, in a
way, or how you're thinking,
that could affect you.
But that affects in a
physical, your decision making.
Certainly that has an effect.
But the spirit itself is pure.
I do believe, and you know,
I've been talking about disease,
I just want to touch
on this a little bit,
that there are also, we have
to remember as a soul being,
that there are some souls who
tend to come back on this Earth
planet, in this school
room, to learn lessons.
We all do.
But certain lessons that some
souls come back, they can only
learn those lessons if they
come back with a certain, let's
say, disease, or malady,
physical problem.
Because maybe if they have
a physical problem, let's
say it's a physical
handicap for instance.
If they have this
physical handicap
and perhaps they have
cerebral palsy let's say.
And maybe by having that,
by coming in that condition,
that the soul
groups have decided
that's what they're
going to come back at.
By having that condition, they
are teaching all those loved
ones around them
about compassion,
giving more, assisting,
maybe forcing
them to look at
their own health,
to take care of
themselves better.
So there is a
reason behind that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're very
welcome, you're very welcome.
Now what I'd like to do with you
at this moment, and everybody
home, every once in
awhile on this show
I like to have people come
back to alignment of source.
Yes, and I think that many,
many of us go through our days
and we forget who we are.
And we don't take five minutes
just to be with ourselves.
So I want to give all
of you an opportunity
to just be with yourselves.
So we're going to
do a meditation,
or I call it a mind journey,
a connection with self.
So if you've never meditated
before, relax, do not worry,
it's just a little
guided journey
I'm going to take you on.
OK?
So just close your
eyes if you could, just
close your eyes
here in the studio.
And at home, close your eyes.
You're welcome to, at
home, you can lay down.
Here we're going to
sit in the chair.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And being the sensitive
person that I am,
I'm already feeling energy.
And when I say energy, I
like to tune into love.
That is really when I start
turning to love in the morning.
And the more I meet people
the stronger and stronger
it gets, which is great.
So as you hear my voice, and
the music behind it, just gently
close your eyes.
And just for a few
moments, give yourself
this time to be with yourself.
We worry so much about the past.
That's all happened already,
nothing we could do about that.
The future is yet
to be, so don't
waste the energy
worrying about that.
What you want to do right
now is become aware of you
at this moment.
This beautiful soul
sitting in this chair.
This beautiful soul lying
down on the floor at home,
if you're lying down
or sitting down.
Just be mindful of who
you are as a soul that's
been through eons and
eons and eons of times.
Who has experienced
many, many Earth lives.
Many lives in other solar
systems, other planet's
perhaps, to perfect
your awareness of self,
to perfect your awareness that
you are an expression of love.
So as you sit in
that chair, just
be mindful with your
thoughts of the body.
Be aware of your
feet on the floor,
of your legs, your backs on
the chairs, your shoulders,
your arms, your chest and
your stomach, your head.
And be aware, please, of
just how the body feels.
You might have some aches
and pains, and that's OK.
Just acknowledge them and
just let that go back,
just let it go by.
And come back to the
sound of my voice.
It's also so lovely, I find, to
give a little bit of gratitude
to the body, an attitude of
gratitude to the physical body.
It got you here today.
You are here in this
space right now,
whether you're
watching this at home,
or you're here in the studio,
you are meant to be here.
There are no
accidents with source.
There are no accidents
with divine source.
Everything is
divine intervention.
So as you sit in this
space, I want you now
to become aware of this
beautiful heart that you have.
This beautiful heart in
the center of your chest
is the seat of
unconditional love.
And through love, all
things are possible.
And I just want you, with your
mind, to take a little journey,
delving deep into your heart
as if it's a swimming pool.
Just delving in.
And see a beautiful green ray
of light in that heart center.
This center of where
the soul resides.
Anything is perfect.
Everything is beautiful.
You are light.
You are that God source.
And as you go into the
swimming pool of your heart,
I just want you to
become aware in your mind
of the different images, the
different experiences, perhaps
the people in your
life that you love.
Begin to see them, whether
in the physical world,
or in the spirit world.
Just when you see their face,
how does your body react?
How does your spirit react?
How does it resonate within you?
There will always
be a resonation,
people that bring you love.
See them, one face at a time.
Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful.
And as you become aware
of that loving energy,
for each person in turn, it
lights up your auric field
all around you.
There you go.
Good, good, good, good, good.
And it brings up your energy.
Love is the fastest
vibration we have.
So tuning into that loving
energy, those loving thoughts,
those loving impressions
bring up your energy,
bring you into
alignment with source.
You feel much more
that you are yourself.
You feel much more connected
to who you truly are,
not what you think,
but who you truly are.
And now become mindful
of different situations
in your life that
make you happy.
Different experiences
that you do in your life
that you love to do.
And just see them play out
in front of you in your mind,
as if you're right there.
I can see the
smiles on your faces
as you go right into that
scene that brings you love.
And just be mindful of how you
feel when you see this scene,
relive this scene
over and over again.
And now I just want
you to see the future.
Now I want you to
create in this space,
a future scenario where you want
to see yourself in 10 years,
with as much love as you can.
So you being God and that love.
You want to see what
brings you happiness,
what brings you pure love.
It might be something you've
never seen before, tried
to visualize before.
But now is your chance to
send love to the future,
to send love to the experiences
that you're going to have.
Remember when you come
from a space of love,
pure source will
always fulfill it.
And take a deep
breath, and exhale.
Good.
And now I want you to go into
your mind, and above your mind
there's a picture screen,
a movie screen perhaps.
And I just want you to be
mindful of people in your life
who bring you fear,
who you're afraid of.
And not judgment,
remember judgment is fear.
So when you judge
another, you're
coming from a space of fear.
So you might ask yourself,
why am I judging that person?
What lesson are they
teaching you about love?
So who do you
judge in your life?
Just see the faces.
And as you see
them, just maybe you
could ask, why am
I judging them?
What is the reason?
What is the illusion I'm
living in with each person
that I'm seeing right now?
Now you'll have a
better understanding,
because you've come
from love, a better
understanding of the situation.
Why are you holding
onto this fear?
onto this judgment?
What is it teaching you?
And now I'd like you to
see in your minds eye
a scenario, a scene, of
something you're fearful of.
And as you bring that into the
awareness of your mind, what
you're afraid of,
fearful of, I want
you to now change
that by bringing love
into that scenario,
and see how it changes.
See how it changes.
You have the power.
And bless those people,
bless those scenes.
I would like all of you
to repeat, out loud,
these words: healthy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Healthy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Happy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Happy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Holy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Holy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Healthy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Healthy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Happy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Happy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Holy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Holy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Healthy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Healthy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Happy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Happy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Holy am I.
>>AUDIENCE: Holy am I.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And so it is.
>>AUDIENCE: And so it is.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And slowly open
up your eyes and be as one.
Ooh!
How does that feel?
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good,
very good, very good.
So I want you all now
in the audience here
to look around to
somebody in the audience,
and what I want you to do is, I
would like for you to just look
around at each other,
there you go, cool.
We're all connected,
we're all one energy,
we're all one source.
How was that exercise
for you guys?
>>AUDIENCE: Good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
Opened some new ways of
looking at things, yes?
Opened up that window?
Very, very good.
So I want you as you look,
look again around people,
and I want you to
find somebody here.
And I want you to come
from a space of love.
And I want you to imagine a
green light from your heart,
and I want you to send it
to somebody in the room.
Ready?
Just send it to their heart.
Go.
Feeling tickling.
[LAUGHING]
>>VAN PRAAGH: It
feels really good.
You feel it?
You feel receiving it?
You feel giving it?
Because it's in giving we
receive, it's very, very true.
So now, as I do that,
and the reason why
I like to work from
love, it really
is a natural sense of
our energy of being.
And we bring the energy
up to a higher vibration,
love being the highest
vibration there
is, it really gets
us closer to spirit.
The spirit world is really
in a much faster vibration,
and they come from
a space of love.
Now when they go over
to the spirit world,
there are many times of
course, they bring with them
the conditions of the mind
that they passed with.
And many times they're
over there, and they feel,
oh, I could have done so
much better on the Earth.
But they're in a
space of acceptance,
and wholeness, and love.
They're back home.
And many times they'll
come back down here
and they want to say they're
sorry, or I'm around you.
And many, many times.
So as a medium, I'm setting
up the energy in this space
as well for them.
Because I work with the
spirit world, out of respect
to the spirit
world, I find I need
to bring the energy up, yes?
And then they can
come close down, yes?
Great.
So there's somebody here who
has a picture of a male figure.
It's a younger picture.
You do.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, would
you mind standing?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And what
is your name, lovely?
>>AUDIENCE: Vicky.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Vicky, first
of all, as I get a connection
and he's talking to me,
now it's getting exciting.
Now it's getting
excited, getting excited.
So I'm going to get
him more close to me.
But Vicki, let me just say to
you that your brother's here.
It's your brother.
Yes or no?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I want to let you
know that I'm not sure
if that photograph has
a little bend on it.
Do you have it with you?
>>AUDIENCE: No, it's
at my parents' home.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
But you know about
the crease in it.
Or there's--
>>AUDIENCE: It's an older,
black and white photo.
And it with those little black
corners pasted into a photo--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
he's showing me
there's a crease in it.
And I know that you
are thinking of,
he's telling me you were
thinking about that photo
today.
That you were actually
thinking about that.
Does that make sense to you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I've got to tell you
that when he comes in here,
go on, go on, go on.
Yeah, yeah, he's
around you quite a bit.
He loves you quite a bit.
I know there was
a moment, or there
was some time where you either
didn't speak with each other,
or there was a separation.
And I know there must
have a separation
as far as
geographically there was
a separation from each other,
and an emotional separation
from each other.
Does that make sense, please?
>>AUDIENCE: He died at birth.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
oh he died at birth.
He died at birth, so there
would be a separation.
OK, so the picture you have
is a baby picture of him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, I see, I see.
And why is it we have
about December, by the way?
December would mean
something, please?
>>AUDIENCE: That's
my mother's birthday.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And has she
passed over, your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Or
is she still here?
>>AUDIENCE: They're both alive.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, good.
Can you just tell your mother
that your brother is fine?
That he's OK?
And that not to worry about it.
And he's very much alive,
he's back in the spirit world.
So would you tell her that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, because
when he was born dead
at birth, her religion,
she was worried
that he wasn't baptized, and
that he wouldn't go to Heaven.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
just man made.
>>AUDIENCE: I know that.
Yes, I know that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let
her know that, well,
so you have to say
it in a way for her
that she understands
that angels come
in all different manners,
all different ways.
>>AUDIENCE: All right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great, thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And, does anyone
have a picture of a loved one?
You do?
May I see that?
Is that OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Shannon.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Shannon.
OK.
And this is a picture of?
>>AUDIENCE: That is my cousin.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
That's your cousin.
What is her first name?
>>AUDIENCE: Katie.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Katie.
And this person passed
as young, obviously?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Young person here.
All right, so can
I just tell you,
let me just get in here, shh.
She's with a man in
the spirit world.
So there's a gentleman
who's passed over.
And he's older than she is.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I've
got to tell you that.
I think it might be
an uncle of hers,
that it's someone
passed over before her.
So I've got to tell you that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So that would
be a relation to you as well,
probably.
So it could be a grandfather.
Might be?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I've
got to tell you,
with this girl I feel like with
you, I feel more like a sister?
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and
I feel like I'm really
connected with you on a sisterly
level, more than a cousin
level.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
almost feel like twins.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
Why does she talk
about a necklace?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, when she
passed, she had on a necklace
that was her favorite necklace.
And so at her funeral, they
buried her with this necklace.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and was there
someone that wanted to take
the necklace, or
thought, you know,
we should keep this
in honor of her--
>>AUDIENCE: Possibly.
>>AUDIENCE: --instead
of burying it with her?
>>AUDIENCE: Possibly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, OK, great.
And I got to tell you
that with this girl,
I feel like whether I'm
going to go back to school,
or whether I'm going
to study, or start
something new going on my life.
But I was just right there
going to start something new.
Was she on her way
visiting somebody?
She was giving me a sense
she was going somewhere.
>>AUDIENCE: She was
going somewhere, correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Where
was she going?
>>AUDIENCE: She was, I
think going to a party.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A party, OK.
And wasn't there another
person involved in her death?
Was there a car that
came, or something?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And hit her?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because I don't feel
like she was the one
who started this.
I feel it was someone that
came in her space, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I got to
tell you that with this girl,
I think, go on-- she's funny.
She has a great sense of humor.
She has a great personality.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I feel like I want
to tell you that it was
almost a sense that I
was going to start my life.
My life was just starting.
And there was going to be new
house that she just bought,
or she was getting involved
in moving to a new place.
But she's talking about
getting something started.
And I know that you saved a
book of hers, or something
to do with some kind of a book
that she was talking about.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Actually, so when
she was little,
she had those Richard Scarry
books, the little animated
character.
So my oldest son,
who's younger than her,
somehow I ended
up with that book.
And that was his favorite
book when he was a child.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Wow, wow.
Well she knows
that you have that.
Now I don't know if recently
that came into your awareness
that you either did
something with that book,
or you looked at that book.
But there's
something about that.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>AUDIENCE: All right.
And does she have a brother?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
have a brother.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I'm going
to tell you something
that this girl comes
in with the brother.
So your brother,
she talks to him,
and she's able to get there.
She's around you all the time.
Thank you, I'll
leave you with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
OK.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: So let
me work on your behalf
with the spirit world,
and for yourself,
and I want to tell
you that there's
a lady that comes into
my experience here.
I know she's a mother figure.
And I know that she
goes to a hospital,
it's almost two days
there, and she passes.
And I feel like this
lady would have--
it was later in her life, and
I want to go in this area.
I want to go over here.
And I'm not sure where I am.
But I think I might
be in this area.
Did your mom pass, over here?
Right there, that's
where I think I am.
You understand about
this lady, yes?
And would you mind
standing, sweetheart?
OK, so the lady that
I'm getting here
is a mother figure
who passed over.
She's your mother.
She would have
been in a hospital
about two to three days
before she passes over.
Does that make sense
to you, darling?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I also
feel like she could not
breathe before she passes over.
And I don't know why I feel in
my heart area, congestive heart
stuff going on with
her, too, as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand?
Yes?
And I want to talk
about either they
were going to do a
procedure for her early on,
or they did a procedure
early on, earlier on.
>>AUDIENCE: They did, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
don't feel as if it
did-- I don't know if
it was a pacemaker.
I don't know if there was
something with the valves.
But that it is something
that didn't fully take,
or I feel like it
didn't work well.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
I also want to tell you that I
know this lady, when she comes
in to me, she's been
around you quite a bit.
And do you have
a sister, at all?
>>AUDIENCE: I did, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You did.
And she's passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
she's with your sister.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
she's with your sister.
And I know that, I keep on
getting your sister being
happy and joyful here, and when
she comes in with your mother.
And she was over there
to bring your mom over.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And she wants me to
tell you that you
asked her to come and
greet mom, and she did.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
and I know that you
must have had a dream about
either your mother and sister
recently, or about two weeks
ago, you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Within
the last week, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Within the last
week, thank you very much.
Because she said that
she was definitely
with you in the dream state.
And yes, it was her.
And if you remember, she
looked young, she was happy,
and she wanted to
project to you that she
was in a space of happiness.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and she
was able to speak again,
she was able to talk
again, and she showed you
how beautiful it
looked where she was.
Isn't that right?
>>AUDIENCE: That is right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
she said she took you
on a tour of Heaven.
Do you understand that, my love?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, and
I know that you said,
your name is Lucy, but I've
got to go to another Lucy.
So there must be someone in the
spirit who had been a Lucy also
over there.
>>AUDIENCE: Grandmother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
Because I have another Lucy
in the spirit world, who
had come in and speak to you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
your mother is singing.
So she wants let you
know she's singing.
She's singing.
And I don't know if she means
symbolically she's singing,
or she always wanted to sing.
But I got to tell you
she's expressing herself
that she's able to sing.
And she said it's
like spring time here.
Do you remember the
flowers I showed you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
in that vision
there were flowers
that she showed you.
You understand that?
So I love that for you, OK.
I want you to take care
of your own health,
she said, because you
worry, worry so much.
And in some ways, you
are fearful, you know?
And you're limiting God
when you're fearful.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I got to
tell you, the one thing you
mother has learned-- and she
missed her daughter quite
a bit, your sister.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, a lot.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
missed her for years--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --and years.
And they've finally come
back together again, OK?
And I know in a
way, in some ways--
and your dad was over
there as well there.
So I know that
they're all together.
And your dad is a gentleman,
I got to tell you.
I figured he was a
businessman when he was alive.
A bit of a businessman,
and he gets things done.
He wants to hold
the family together.
And that's very, very important.
I know you did not speak with
your dad for a little bit.
Did you not speak with
your dad before he passes?
>>AUDIENCE: I had
moved away, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
had moved away.
Because I feel there
was-- he's talking
about a sense of not being
able to speak, got it.
I got you.
So I want to leave
you with mom saying
thank you very much
for helping her.
Thank you very much
And I know you
called the doctors.
I know you got the things
taken care of in the hospital.
I know you rearranged the room.
You rearranged the medications.
You had to make sure
this medication was good.
I know you went there.
Did you once go over
there with food,
or brought something in a bag?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
[LAUGHING]
>>VAN PRAAGH: And, you know,
you weren't allowed to do that.
>>AUDIENCE: I know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But you snuck
some food into my hospital bed,
she said.
>>AUDIENCE: It was cornbread.
[LAUGHING]
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
snuck it in and she
loved that, she loved that.
And do you have her
little change purse?
>>AUDIENCE: I think I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think you do.
I think you have
some of her bags--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: --her purses.
And she's telling
me you have them.
And I know that there's a
couple of them, one is black,
and then there's a white one.
And she goes, if you'd
look in one of them
you'll find a
little change purse.
Would you go look in that?
Because you're going to find--
I get really emotional--
an old photograph.
And it looks like a
photograph, gosh from,
like a little square photograph.
I'm not sure if it's
a picture of you
when you were a little girl.
But would you go look,
and look for that?
Go find that.
And lots of love to
you from the family.
And your sister's
thanking you as well.
And she's still here, she said.
And she's still here,
and she's happy now.
>>AUDIENCE: Great.
Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, God bless you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want
to come to this lady
back here, if I might.
Would you mind if I come
to you, lovely lady?
And would you mind
standing, honey?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Ashley.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ashley.
OK, Ashley, I want to bring in
your grandmother for you, OK?
So I'd like to bring her.
And she said to
me she raised you.
Do you understand that?
And she's talking
about she tried
to make-- right-- she made you
the best woman that you are.
And she said,
despite that family,
she says you know you're mine.
You're mine.
And she said you never--
oh, crying-- you never
felt you fit in to the family
that you were born into.
You understand that, honey?
And she said that
you were always mine.
My honey, my baby,
my baby, my honey,
my baby, that's what
she's referring you to.
And she said that you came
here to talk to me today.
OK?
You understand this?
Yes?
Say yes.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
we've got to speak to them.
And I know that when
you were a little girl,
she comes back with memories.
She comes back
with these memories
of you sitting down
at the table with her.
And it's either a little kitchen
table, or a dinette table,
and I'm counting coins.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You remember that?
When you used to
count the coins?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm putting
the pennies over here,
and the dimes over
here, and the nickels.
And I'm also going to
tell you something.
The love from this lady
is what comes through.
And she helped you to read.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She taught
you how to read, didn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, she did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
this is very important that she
was very regimented
with the reading,
and she was regimented like a
schedule kind of regimentation
as far as, we've got
to do our homework.
We've got to do the best we can.
And she made you,
she helped you.
And you know she influenced you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she's a darling lady.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you have a
lot of her looks, by the way.
She's a very pretty lady, and
you're a very pretty lady.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that you
look at her
photograph every day.
>>AUDIENCE: All the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Every day.
>>AUDIENCE: Her picture
fell out before I came here
this morning.
[LAUGHING]
>>AUDIENCE: It was a
picture of her waving.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It was a
Wow.
Ahh, what validation that love.
And the love energy
that she showed you,
and she demonstrated,
she taught you.
Now you can teach
others that way.
I don't know if you want
a little girl yourself.
Do you have a little girl?
Do you want a little girl?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, because
I need to tell you
she's telling me--
again, I get so emotional
here-- that you're going to
be blessed with a little girl.
That your wishes are
going to come true.
Because when you come
from love, anything's
possible, just like
I said earlier.
Anything is possible.
And you're going to have
a beautiful little girl.
I see braids.
I'm seeing this girl skipping.
I'm seeing her skipping.
And I know that your grandma
was so careful about who
you hung around with when you
were growing up in school.
And she didn't allow
certain people at the house.
>>AUDIENCE: Correct.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And now
she's showing me jump rope.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, outside
in front of her house.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Jump rope.
And I want to sit
on the steps lot.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm that,
sitting on the steps a lot.
Oh, and she's
bringing you lemonade.
>>AUDIENCE: Mm hm.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She made
lemonade, didn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, or some tea.
>>AUDIENCE: Some iced tea,
or tea, whatever it was,
with lemon.
I thought I saw lemonade.
And I'm just give you that here.
And I know that
you loved to draw
when you were a
little girl she said.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
she said I wanted
to put her through art class.
I wanted to put her through
art class, remember?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And she's
telling me about that.
And I love that, honey.
I love that, you know?
You deserve it.
You're great.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that
you're going to end up--
she's giving me--
she said, I'm very
proud that I taught her well.
I helped her well.
And she's talking about a white
cross, just a white cross.
It's a simple white cross, OK?
So I don't know if that was
where she is, or there's
something about that.
But there's a simple
white cross somewhere.
Can you place that at all?
>>AUDIENCE: Well,
I have a portrait
that I want to get tattooed,
it's a cross that I keep.
I take it everywhere I go.
It's in a frame, it's
big, but I always take it,
no matter where I go.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And do you
think of her, associate her
or something with that?
No?
>>AUDIENCE: I do, her name's
on there, when she died,
when she was born.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, see,
you're great, you're great.
I know that you have either the
bed covering, the bedspread,
or some bedding that
she's telling me about.
Either you just got
some new bedding,
you were looking at bedding,
you changed some bedding around,
she's telling me about.
>>AUDIENCE: I moved the
room around last night.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Last night, right.
[LAUGHTER]
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm not going
to say you changed the sheets,
but you did.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And so the bedding
you have on the bed, there.
Are there flowers, or is there
a print, some kind of a print?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, the bedspread.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She said you
were sitting there on that,
and she was with you
sitting down there.
>>AUDIENCE: Wow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: I understand.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK,
because just to show you,
that we're never alone.
We're never alone,
that they're with us.
And do you have
some of her makeup?
Do you have some
of her lipstick?
Or something you've kept?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
I have--
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: Well I
kept it in a box.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
>>AUDIENCE: Some of her makeup.
Yeah, her lipstick.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah, she
said you were looking at it.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
I look in that box from time
to time, just to, you know.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well I
want to go to the desk.
I want to go to the table.
It's a desk, or table.
So maybe it might be--
I got it, thank you--
she's showing me
the picture here.
She said I'm sorry.
She's really kind.
She has manners.
And she's saying, oh, I'm sorry.
I didn't send that
right, she said.
So she's talking to me about
a computer that you're on.
And I know you love
the different music.
And I know you
could also be a DJ.
>>AUDIENCE: I am a DJ.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You are a DJ.
[LAUGHTER]
>>AUDIENCE: And this was
after she passed away.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very good.
So she said, I know I'm
with her with the music.
And with the DJ.
And she has it on
the computer, you
have all those songs
on the computer,
and you're downloading,
you're making some CDs.
Is that what you
call it, CDs, right?
And she said you were
doing that very recently,
do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
and this weekend.
And I'm taking care of you.
Just, you got to be right with
yourself, and love yourself.
Because that's the
most that matters.
And if anything, and
I'm so happy because I
feel that this soul,
this wonderful woman,
she really did
everything for you.
And you accepted it.
You honor her.
And you're going
to live with her.
And never do anything below you.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, sir.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And never
have people around you
who are fear-based.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because you are love.
And she taught you love.
I'll leave you with that.
God bless you, darling.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, wow, wow.
I'm touched.
I hope all of you are touched,
and the people at home
are touched when you witness
how spirit is always around us.
And they're part of our lives.
They are part of our lives.
And we just have to
remember, as they often
will tell us, to
please live in love.
Because love is your
natural vibration.
Love is your energy.
The more love you bring
within yourself and the world
around you, that atmosphere,
the more miracles happen,
and the more true you
are to who you are.
So I'm going to leave
all of you with my love.
And all of you with your
love, my love around you.
And thank you for joining us.
Bye-bye now, thank
you, everyone.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]